BTS 2. Tuesday 12/9

# Page 1
The jobs employers just can't fill Some sectors are crying out for employees - but workers think they can do

better elsewhere.

Throughout the past few years, workers have been resigning from jobs in record numbers. Some have been switching careers, some have been job-hopping2 for faster 5 advancement and some have left the workforce altogether. In the US, for instance, the August 2022 data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics puts the labour force participation rate at 1.0 percentage point below its February 2020 level. In other words, people have been quitting and, in some sectors and jobs, they haven't been coming back

10 Perhaps it's unsurprising, given the poor conditions in many workplaces throughout the pandemic. The dearth of workers is most evident in hospitality and service-work industries, where positions for dishwashers, truck drivers, retail workers, food servers, airport agents, home health aides and similar roles have been open for literal years.

This is not because people don't want to work, say the experts. They just want better jobs; higher pay, improved conditions. The job market upheaval caused by the 15 pandemic has enabled some workers to switch into better employment - and if hard- hit sectors want their workers back, they need to find ways of making their jobs more attractive.

The epidemic of quitting throughout 2021 and into this year, known as the Great Resignation, left job openings across industries. But David Dwertmann, associate professor of management at Rutgers University School of Business, Camden, US, says it's been difficult to re-hire workers to fill low-wage jobs in particular, for the same reasons people left them in the first place.

20

He points to a Pew Research Survey that asked people who quit their jobs about their reason for leaving. Low pay was first, followed by "no opportunities for advancement" and "feeling disrespected". [...]

25

It's not unusual, these days, to see signs outside fast-food restaurants, convenience stores and markets offering previously unheard-of starting hourly wages to new hires. Many employers instituted sign-on bonuses: in 2021, Amazon announced a hiring push and said it would pay $1,000 bonuses for warehouse and transport jobs. Hilton Hotels began offering sign-on bonuses of $500 and more for room attendants and other staff.

30

Yet while financial incentives don't hurt, they don't do anything to address the other major things workers want that those "unifillable" jobs don't often offer, flexibility, predictability and better conditions.

"I do think employers need to react not just by increasing wages and providing sign-on

35 bonuses, but also, for example, by scheduling employees in different ways," says


¹to resign: démissionner

2 job-hopping (familier): le fait de passer d'un travail à l'autre

3 dearth: pénurie

* upheaval : bouleversement




# Page 2
Dwertmann. "Making sure that there's some predictability for employees in terms of

when they have to come in, and how many hours they get to work, so that they can,

for example, manage childcare." Focusing on the money alone, agrees da Motta Veiga, is short-sighted. While, yes, people want to be paid what they feel their time and energy 40 is worth, companies should also "be asking people: "What do you want? What is your priority? Is it that security? Is it that flexibility?" They need to be creative, he says, in making these jobs more attractive.

Kate Morgan - BBC News, September 12th, 2022